# Open Curriculum for XR

## About

This initiative aims to make available an open-sourced curriculum for learning, teaching and applying all forms of extended reality (XR): augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), mixed reality (MR).

Please take a moment to read our [[CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md]] and participate to accelerate the development of this curriculum.  

## Curriculum

The curriculum is comprised of modules in the [[outline.md]]. Each module contains a file of the module name as its root in a folder of the same name. This file describes the learning objectives and content for the module. Each module outlines its own lessons, activities and quizzes in their respective subfolders.

The learning outcomes of this curriculum are:

1. Familiarity with the background and trend of XR

2. Familiarity with future careers in XR development

3. Familiarity with different XR platforms and workflows

4. Ability to create an experience in AR & VR to present an artwork or product

5. Ability to present information in AR & VR

6. Ability to articulate and apply use cases of AR & VR in different industries

7. Ability to articulate the limitations of AR & VR

## Contribution Guide

This guide assumes that you have a GitHub account and have [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) installed on your Linux/MacOS/Windows machine.

1. This documentation is built using Foam. Head over to the [Foam documentation](https://foambubble.github.io/foam) to get an idea of what Foam is and how to use it.

2. Fork and [clone this repository to your local machine](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository) and open it in VS Code.

    *Open the repository as a folder using the `File > Open...` menu item.*

3. When prompted to install recommended extensions, click **Install all** (or **Show Recommendations** if you want to review and install them one by one)

4. Having set up the repository, you are welcome to contribute to the open items in [issues](https://github.com/kowsheek/ocxr/issues) as well as open new issues for discussion.

5. Please use the templates in `_templates` to create new modules and files to facilitate the review and integration of your changes.

6. Once you have changes ready for submission, please [open a pull request](https://github.com/kowsheek/ocxr/pulls) linking the issue from the tracker.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md]: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md "Code of Conduct - Open Curriculum for XR"
[outline.md]: outline.md "Outline"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
