# Introduction Lesson 1

In this lesson, we present the background, history and future of augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), mixed reality (MR) and extended reality (XR).

## What is Virtual Reality?

Virtual reality is a simulated experience that can be similar to or completely different from the real world. Currently, standard virtual reality systems use either virtual reality headsets or multi-projected environments to generate realistic images, sounds and other sensations that simulate a user's physical presence in a virtual environment.

## Origin & Future of Virtual Reality

Early virtual reality solutions were used for medical, flight simulation, automobile industry design, and military training purposes from 1970 to 1990. In 1991, Sega announced the Sega VR headset for arcade games and the Mega Drive console. Until the 2000's many other games and experiences in VR were created but were expensive and inaccessible requiring large computers for the dedicated devices. Between 2010 and 2015 the modern VR devices such as the Oculus Rift, HTC Vive and Google Cardboard appeared and since then there are at least 230 companies developing VR-related products.

Due to the changes in how people communicated and worked since 2020, VR is experiencing an enormous rise. According to research, the global VR market will grow to 62.1 billion dollars in 2027.

## What is Augmented Reality?

Augmented reality is an interactive experience of a real-world environment where the objects that reside in the real world are enhanced by computer-generated perceptual information. Augmented reality can be defined as a system that fulfills three basic features: a combination of real and virtual worlds, real-time interaction, and accurate 3D registration of virtual and real objects.

## Origin of Augmented Reality

In the 1990s one of the first fully functional augmented reality systems was built that allowed military personnel to virtually control and guide machinery to perform tasks like training their US Air Force pilots on safer flying practices. And augmented reality was brought to the entertainment industry for the first time in 1994 with the theater production titled Dancing in Cyberspace. Since then AR has been used in sports broadcasting, spacecrafts and in media.

The adoption of AR has significantly increased with mobile device usage through social media and ecommerce features such as filters.

## What is Mixed Reality & Extended Reality?

Mixed reality is the merging of real and virtual worlds to produce new environments and visualizations, where physical and digital objects co-exist and interact in real time. Mixed reality does not exclusively take place in either the physical or virtual world, but is a hybrid of reality and virtual reality.

Extended reality (XR) is a term referring to all real-and-virtual combined environments and human-machine interactions generated by computer technology and wearables, where the 'X' represents a variable for any current or future spatial computing technologies.

## References

- [Virtual Reality on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_reality)
- [Augmented Reality on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Augmented_reality)
- [Extended Reality on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended_reality)
